2.2 Design Solution

The SCOMP program written for the design problem is a state machine consisting of four states. The states are: \forward motion," \inside turn," \adjust outward," and \adjust inward." In \forward motion," the robot follows a straight trajectory until it senses a wall in front or no wall is sensed. If the Amigobot senses a wall in front, the program switches to the \inside turn" state, turns 90 degrees, then proceeds on a straight trajectory. If no wall is sensed, the Amigobot adjusts inward until it is parallel to the wall. The two adjustment states, \adjust outward" and \adjust inward", maintain parallel motion to the wall by correcting the robot trajectory if the measured distance to the wall is not within an acceptable range of 20 +/- 1 cm.

A switch is used to toggle between following a wall on the left side or on the right side of the robot.The switch position activates the ultrasonic sensors on one side of the robot and determines clockwise or counterclockwise turning direction. 

The initial approach discussed in the proposal implemented an additional \outside turn" state. During testing, the team discovered that the state causes the robot to turn prematurely and collide with the wall whenever the robot was not parallel to the wall. To overcome this challenge, the team used the \adjust inward" state to make incremental turns around an outside wall corner. 

Additionally, the initial design called for one sensor reading from the lateral region of the robot and one from the forward region. In testing it was discovered that accuracy in maintaining the set distance improved when the minimum value of two sensors in the lateral and forward regions were used as inputs to the states. 

The role of the LCD display had to be altered when the team ran into issues of consistency. The LCD display was initially expected to show the moving state the robot is in. Due to the display not working consistently, it was changed to show the basic startup states.  

The design demonstration met most of the specifications outlined above. The robot successfully completed the course for both the left and right sided walls. It received an accuracy bonus for maintaining the desired 20 cm distance when following the right wall. However, it was unable to earn the accuracy bonus when following the left wall. 